DOCS-6709-3.9-build-https-service-kt (#1258)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/build-an-https-service.adoc

= Configure an HTTPS Service
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: mule runtime, arm, https, cloudhub

To help you ensure your data confidentiality, you can deploy your Mule app using an HTTPS based service. Learn how to configure:

* An HTTPS service to deploy your application to CloudHub
* HTTPS services using API Manager Proxies

If you need to deploy your app locally, see xref:tls-configuration.adoc[TLS Configuration].

== Prerequisites

> Before you begin, build a service (such as a simple "Hello World" service) and deploy it.

Reviewer: It's a bit confusing here that the original plain HTTP service deployment is needed as a prerrequisite. The idea is to modify the original plain HTTP service to HTTPS. Maybe you can add here the full "Hello World" service and to make it a reference for the rest of the doc.

Author: In the `Prerequisites` section I added a link to our `[Build an API from Start to Finish](https://docs.mulesoft.com/general/api-led-overview)` tutorial, since the XML tag for the whole app was to big for the starting section of the doc. Let m know if this sounds good.

== Configure HTTPS Service

Modify your service to HTTPS to deploy your app to CloudHub:

. Generate a `keystore.jks` file using the JDK `keytool` utility on the command line. You must also specify the hostname on the command line to generate a self-signed certificate. +

+
For example, the following command with hostname `SAN=DNS:localhost,IP:127.0.0.1` creates a `keystore.jks` file:
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
keytool -genkeypair -keystore keystore.jks   -dname "CN=localhost, OU=Unknown, O=Unknown, L=Unknown, ST=Unknown, C=Unknown"  -keypass password  -storepass password  -keyalg RSA  -sigalg SHA1withRSA  -keysize 2048  -alias mule  -ext SAN=DNS:localhost,IP:127.0.0.1 -validity 9999
----

. Add the generated `keystore.jks` file to your Anypoint Studio Mule app folder in `src/main/resources`.
. Configure the HTTP Listener in your Mule app, specifying:

* Any host IP addresses you want to use with the HTTPS scheme for the value of `host`
* The `${https.port} variable for the value of `port`

[source,xml,linenums]
----
...

> <http:listener-config name="HTTPS_Listener_Configuration" protocol="HTTPS" host="0.0.0.0" port="${https.port}" doc:name="HTTP Listener Configuration">

Reviewer: remove the docs name or use HTTPS Listener Configuration. I would remove the doc:name from the docs.

     <tls:context>

>          <tls:key-store path="keystore.jks" keyPassword="${keystore.password}" password="password"/>

Reviewer: maybe also set the password as a system property.

     </tls:context>
 </http:listener-config>
...
----

[start=4]
. Include a `config-ref` reference to the HTTPS global listener configuration.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="httpsserviceFlow">

>     <http:listener config-ref="HTTPS_Listener_Configuration" path="hello" doc:name="HTTPS_Listener_Configuration"/>

Reviewer: remove the docs. Or make them be the same in each cases. For example remove the underscores and use spaces.

</flow>
----

[start=5]
. Configure the HTTP Requester using your required TLS configuration to enable HTTPS requests to external addresses:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
...
<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_Configuration" protocol="HTTPS" host="0.0.0.0" port="${https.port}" doc:name="HTTP Request Configuration">
     <tls:context>

>          <tls:key-store path="keystore.jks" password="password" keyPassword="${keystore.password}" />

Reviewer: same comment with password.

[start=6]
. Include a `config-ref` reference to the HTTPS global request configuration:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="httpsserviceFlow">
  <http:request config-ref="HTTP_Request_Configuration" path="some-path" method="GET" doc:name="HTTPS_Request_Configuration" host="0.0.0.0" port="${https.port}"/>
</flow>
----

[start=7]
. Your application is now ready to be deployed on CloudHub. You can access your endpoint using the HTTPS address: for example, `+https://yourdomain.cloudhub.io+`

== Configure Services under API Manager Proxies

If you are prompted to download a proxy from API Manager and need to configure it for HTTPS, follow the steps in the HTTP Connector configuration for the HTTP Requester. The HTTP Listener configuration is provided as a template.

To complete the configuration:

. Import the proxy project into Anypoint Studio.
. Select the *Configuration XML* tab for your proxy flow.
+
The parser detects an error because the flow references an HTTPS Connector that is commented out.
. Uncomment the `http:listener-config` block.
. Add the `keystore` values: `path`, `password`, and `keyPassword`:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<tls:context name="tls-context-config">

>     <tls:key-store path="keystore.jks" password="password"

Reviewer: password as a static property.

	xmlns:spring="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xsi:schemaLocation="
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/api-platform-gw http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/api-platform-gw/current/mule-api-platform-gw.xsd http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-current.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/tls http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/tls/current/mule-tls.xsd">
      <configuration defaultProcessingStrategy="non-blocking" />

    <expression-language:property-placeholder location="config.properties" />

    <api-platform-gw:api apiName="![p['api.name']]" version="![p['api.version']]" flowRef="proxy">
    </api-platform-gw:api>

    <http:listener-config name="https-lc-0.0.0.0-8082" host="0.0.0.0" port="![p['proxy.port']]" protocol="HTTPS">
        <tls:context name="tls-context-config">

>             <tls:key-store path="keystore.jks" password="password"

Reviewer: password as an static property.

> = Configure an HTTPS Service

Reviewer 2: Configure or build?

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: mule runtime, arm, https, cloudhub

> To help you ensure your data confidentiality, you can deploy your Mule app using an HTTPS based service. Learn how to configure:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To help you ensure data confidentiality, you can deploy your Mule app using an HTTPS-based service. Learn how to configure:
```

* An HTTPS service to deploy your application to CloudHub

> * HTTPS services using API Manager Proxies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* HTTPS services using API Manager proxies
```

> If you need to deploy your app locally, see xref:tls-configuration.adoc[TLS Configuration].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you must deploy your app locally, see xref:tls-configuration.adoc[TLS Configuration].
```

== Prerequisites

Before you begin, build a service (such as a simple "Hello World" service) and deploy it. +

> Learn how to design and develop an API using our xref:general::api-led-overview.adoc[Build an API from Start to Finish] tutorial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn how to design and develop an API using the MuleSoft xref:general::api-led-overview.adoc[Build an API from Start to Finish] tutorial.
```

> == Configure HTTPS Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure an HTTPS Service
```

Modify your service to HTTPS to deploy your app to CloudHub:

> . Generate a `keystore.jks` file using the JDK `keytool` utility on the command line. You must also specify the hostname on the command line to generate a self-signed certificate. +

Reviewer 2: GLOBAL formatting for list items and steps:
```suggestion
. Generate a `keystore.jks` file using the JDK `keytool` utility on the command line. 
+
+ You must also specify the hostname on the command line to generate a self-signed certificate. +
```

+
For example, the following command with hostname `SAN=DNS:localhost,IP:127.0.0.1` creates a `keystore.jks` file:
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
keytool -genkeypair -keystore keystore.jks   -dname "CN=localhost, OU=Unknown, O=Unknown, L=Unknown, ST=Unknown, C=Unknown"  -keypass password  -storepass password  -keyalg RSA  -sigalg SHA1withRSA  -keysize 2048  -alias mule  -ext SAN=DNS:localhost,IP:127.0.0.1 -validity 9999
----

. Add the generated `keystore.jks` file to your Anypoint Studio Mule app folder in `src/main/resources`.
. Configure the HTTP Listener in your Mule app, specifying:

* Any host IP addresses you want to use with the HTTPS scheme for the value of `host`

> * The `${https.port} variable for the value of `port`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A value for `${https.port} variable for the value of `port`
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
...
<http:listener-config name="HTTPS_Listener_Configuration" protocol="HTTPS" host="0.0.0.0" port="${https.port}">
     <tls:context>
         <tls:key-store path="keystore.jks" keyPassword="${keystore.password}" password="${password}"/>
     </tls:context>
 </http:listener-config>
...
----

[start=4]
. Include a `config-ref` reference to the HTTPS global listener configuration.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="httpsserviceFlow">
    <http:listener config-ref="HTTPS_Listener_Configuration" path="hello"/>
</flow>
----

[start=5]

> . Configure the HTTP Requester using your required TLS configuration to enable HTTPS requests to external addresses:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Configure the HTTP Requester using the TLS configuration required to enable HTTPS requests to external addresses:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
...
<http:request-config name="HTTP_Request_Configuration" protocol="HTTPS" host="0.0.0.0" port="${https.port}" >
     <tls:context>
         <tls:key-store path="keystore.jks" password="${password}" keyPassword="${keystore.password}" />
     </tls:context>
</http:request-config>
...
----

[start=6]
. Include a `config-ref` reference to the HTTPS global request configuration:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="httpsserviceFlow">
  <http:request config-ref="HTTP_Request_Configuration" path="some-path" method="GET" host="0.0.0.0" port="${https.port}"/>
</flow>
----

[start=7]

> . Your application is now ready to be deployed on CloudHub. You can access your endpoint using the HTTPS address: for example, `+https://yourdomain.cloudhub.io+`

Reviewer 2: This is not a step:
```suggestion
+ Your application is ready to be deployed on CloudHub. You can access your endpoint using the HTTPS address: for example, `+https://yourdomain.cloudhub.io+`.
```

> == Configure Services under API Manager Proxies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configure Services Under API Manager Proxies
```

> If you are prompted to download a proxy from API Manager and need to configure it for HTTPS, follow the steps in the HTTP Connector configuration for the HTTP Requester. The HTTP Listener configuration is provided as a template.

Reviewer 2: Follow the steps from...where? Is there a task that should be named or xref'd here? Or do you mean "use the same steps that you used in Anypoint Connector for HTTP to configure the HTTP Requestor?

Reviewer 2: Also...is this a prerequisite to the steps that follow?
